The trace of the programming language C++ can be done back to 1979 when Bjarne Stroustrup was doing some development for this thesis for PhD. One in all the words Stroustrup had the chance to figure with, was a language referred to as Simula, that because the name implies, could be a language primarily designed for simulations. The Simula sixty-seven language – that was the variant that Stroustrup worked with is considered the primary language to support the object-oriented programming paradigm. Stroustrup found that this paradigm was helpful for package development; but, the Simula language was way too slow for practice & practical use.
Shortly subsequently, he began work on “C with Classes“, because what the name implies was meant to be a superset of the C language. His main dream was to get his advanced object-oriented programming, created by him, into the C language, which was during his era was still the programming language that was widely respected for its movability, portability & compactness, by not sacrificing the speed or the low-level practicality. His programming language enclosed inlining, basic inheritance, default function arguments, categories, and reliable sort was checking additionally to all or any the options of the C language.
The first C with categories compiler was referred to as Cfront, that got derived from a C compiler referred to as CPre. It had been a program designed to translate C with categories code to universal C. A rather attention-grabbing purpose value noting is that Cfront was written mostly in C with classes, creating it a self-hosting compiler (a compiler which will compile itself). Cfront would later be abandoned in 1993 when it became troublesome to integrate new options into it, mainly C++ exceptions. Even so, Cfront created a significant impact on the implementations of future compilers and also the operating system UNIX.
In 1983, the name of the language got modified from C with categories to C++. The ++ operator within the C language is the associate operator for incrementing a variable, which provides some insight into however Stroustrup regarded the programming language. Several new options got additional around this point, the foremost notable of that area unit virtual functions, perform overloading, references with the const keyword, and single-line comments by using the two forward slashes (which may be a feature taken from the language BCPL).
In 1985, Stroustrup’s relation to the language entitled The C++ programming language was printed and got released. That very same year, C++ got enforced as an advertisement product and hence starting of it as a commercial element. The programming language wasn’t formally standardized, nevertheless creating the book an essential reference. The programming language was updated once more in 1989 to incorporate protected and static members, still as an associate inheritance from many categories & classes.